.TH KOET-UI 1 "2026-06-19" "1.18.0" "IBM Storage Scale Network Readiness"
.SH NAME
koet-ui \- web UI backend for the KOET network readiness tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B koet-ui
[\fBPORT=\fR\fIport\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B koet-ui
starts the KOET web UI backend server, which provides a browser-based interface
for configuring, running, and reviewing results from
.BR koet (8).
.PP
The server binds exclusively to
.B 127.0.0.1
(localhost) and is not accessible from other machines without an SSH tunnel.
Once started, open
.B http://127.0.0.1:5002
in a browser on the same machine.
.PP
The web UI provides five panels:
.TP
.B Configure
Set KPI thresholds, host IPs or hostnames, RDMA ports, and edit
.I hosts.json
directly in the browser.
.TP
.B Run
Review the full configuration and estimated runtime, then start or stop the test.
.TP
.B Live Output
Color-coded streaming terminal output with a phase progress bar.
An inline confirmation widget handles the interactive
.I Do you want to continue?
prompt from
.BR koet (8).
.TP
.B Results
Chart.js bar charts for per-host throughput and latency, plus a KPI pass/fail
summary table. Results are loaded automatically after each run.
.TP
.B Log History
List and reload results from any previous run stored in the
.I log/
directory.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PORT
TCP port to listen on. Defaults to
.BR 5002 .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib/koet/koet-server.py
The Flask backend server started by this command.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/koet/koet-ui.html
The single-file frontend served at
.IR http://127.0.0.1:5002/ .
.TP
.I /usr/lib/koet/hosts.json
Host list read and written by the Configure panel.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start on the default port:
.PP
.RS
.B koet-ui
.RE
.PP
Start on a custom port:
.PP
.RS
.B PORT=5003 koet-ui
.RE
.PP
Access from a remote workstation via SSH tunnel:
.PP
.RS
.B ssh \-L 5002:127.0.0.1:5002 root@cluster-node
.RE
Then open
.B http://127.0.0.1:5002
in a local browser.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR koet (8),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/cdmaestas/SpectrumScale_NETWORK_READINESS/issues
.SH AUTHORS
Originally developed by IBM. Maintained by cdmaestas.
