.TH KOET 8 "2026-06-19" "1.18.0" "IBM Storage Scale Network Readiness"
.SH NAME
koet \- IBM Storage Scale network readiness test (Keep On Executing Tests)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B koet.py
[\fB\-l\fR \fIKPI_LATENCY\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIFPING_COUNT\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR \fIKPI_THROUGHPUT\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIPERF_RUNTIME\fR]
[\fB\-\-hosts\fR \fIHOSTS_CSV\fR]
[\fB\-\-rdma\fR \fIPORTS_CSV\fR]
[\fB\-\-rpm_check_disabled\fR]
[\fB\-\-save\-hosts\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B koet.py
validates IBM Storage Scale network readiness by running fping ICMP latency tests
and nsdperf TCP/RDMA throughput tests across all cluster nodes, then comparing
results against IBM Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
.PP
The tool must be run as
.B root
from a node that is itself part of the cluster being tested.
Root passwordless SSH must be configured from this node to all other nodes.
.PP
Hostnames and IP addresses are both accepted for node identification.
Hostnames are resolved to IPv4 addresses via DNS at startup.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-latency " " \fIKPI_LATENCY\fR
Maximum acceptable average ICMP latency in milliseconds.
The KPI certification threshold is
.B 1.0
msec (default: 1.0).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-fping_count " " \fIFPING_COUNT\fR
Number of fping pings per node per test.
The KPI certification minimum is
.B 500
(default: 500, minimum: 2).
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-min_throughput " " \fIKPI_THROUGHPUT\fR
Minimum acceptable throughput per node in MB/sec.
The KPI certification minimum is
.B 2000
MB/sec (default: 2000).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-perf_runtime " " \fIPERF_RUNTIME\fR
Duration of each nsdperf throughput test in seconds.
The KPI certification minimum is
.B 1200
seconds (default: 1200, minimum: 10).
.TP
.BR \-\-hosts " " \fIHOSTS_CSV\fR
Comma-separated list of host IPs or hostnames to test.
Overrides
.I hosts.json.
Hostnames are resolved to IPv4 automatically.
.TP
.BR \-\-rdma " " \fIPORTS_CSV\fR
Enable RDMA mode. Comma-separated list of InfiniBand port names to test
(e.g.\&
.IR ib0,ib1 ).
Must use OS device names, not mlx names.
.TP
.B \-\-rpm_check_disabled
Skip the RPM prerequisite check. Use only if prerequisites are installed
by means other than RPM.
.TP
.B \-\-save\-hosts
Write (or overwrite)
.I hosts.json
with the hosts passed via
.BR \-\-hosts .
Does not prompt for confirmation.
.TP
.B \-v
Show the program version number and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I hosts.json
JSON file mapping host IPs or hostnames to their role (typically
.BR ECE ).
Located in the same directory as
.IR koet.py .
.TP
.I supported_OS.json
JSON file listing supported operating system versions.
.TP
.I packages.json
JSON file listing required RPM packages.
.TP
.I packages_rdma.json
JSON file listing required RDMA packages (RHEL 7 series).
.TP
.I packages_rdma_rh8.json
JSON file listing required RDMA packages (RHEL 8+ and Rocky Linux).
.TP
.I log/YYYY-MM-DD_HH-MM-SS/
Log directory created for each run, containing raw fping output,
nsdperf JSON results, and a throughput CSV.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.IP \(bu 4
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.6+, 8.6+, 9.x, 10.x or Rocky Linux 8.6+, 9.x, 10.x
.IP \(bu 4
Root passwordless SSH from the local node to all cluster nodes
.IP \(bu 4
Packages installed on all nodes: fping, gcc-c++, psmisc, iproute
.IP \(bu 4
TCP port 6668 free and reachable on all nodes
.IP \(bu 4
firewalld stopped on all nodes during the test
.IP \(bu 4
Local filesystem (not NFS or Storage Scale) for running the tool
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All tests passed on all nodes.
.TP
.B >0
One or more tests failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run with hosts from hosts.json:
.PP
.RS
.B koet.py
.RE
.PP
Run with explicit hosts (saved for future runs):
.PP
.RS
.B koet.py \-\-hosts node1,node2,node3,node4 \-\-save\-hosts
.RE
.PP
Run with custom KPIs:
.PP
.RS
.B koet.py \-l 0.5 \-c 1000 \-m 3000 \-p 1200
.RE
.PP
Run RDMA test:
.PP
.RS
.B koet.py \-\-rdma ib0,ib1
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR koet-ui (1),
.BR fping (8),
.BR ssh (1)
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/cdmaestas/SpectrumScale_NETWORK_READINESS/issues
.SH AUTHORS
Originally developed by IBM. Maintained by cdmaestas.
